# Kubernetes Features

Kubernetes offers a very rich set of features for container orchestration. Some of its fully supported features are:

- Automatic binpacking
  - Kubernetes automatically schedules the containers based on resource usage and constraints, without sacrificing the availability.
- Self-healing
  - Kubernetes automatically replaces and reschedules the containers from failed nodes. It also kills and restarts the containers which do not respond to health checks, based on existing rules/policy.
- Horizontal scaling
  - Kubernetes can automatically scale applications based on resource usage like CPU and memory. In some cases, it also supports dynamic scaling based on customer metrics.
- Service discovery and Load balancing
  - Kubernetes groups sets of containers and refers to them via a DNS name. This DNS name is also called a Kubernetes service. Kubernetes can discover these services automatically, and load-balance requests between containers of a given service.
- Automated rollouts and rollbacks
  - Kubernetes can roll out and roll back new versions/configurations of an application, without introducing any downtime.
- Secrets and configuration management
  - Kubernetes can manage secrets and configuration details for an application without re-building the respective images. With secrets, we can share confidential information to our application without exposing it to the stack configuration, like on GitHub.
- Storage orchestration
  - With Kubernetes and its plugins, we can automatically mount local, external, and storage solutions to the containers in a seamless manner, based on Software Defined Storage (SDS).
- Batch execution
  - Besides long running jobs, Kubernetes also supports batch execution.

## [Goback...](./index.md)